README.md, before:

# my own nvim configuration

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-12 at 19 23 23@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8b148bb-09f2-45b6-aa6b-61958d1ca142" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-12 at 19 24 27@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/720d4ad3-7056-46ad-b8a6-6046a02be178" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-12 at 19 24 07@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/749535d8-281d-4794-bdc4-09e36cb9d933" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="Ghostty 2025-09-12 19 27 16" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ecb415f2-fcd3-4a3e-8bba-be716081bf6f" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="Ghostty 2025-09-12 19 28 01" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b64fead4-3e11-4f7c-be3f-e5a8dfcb6f30" />

## installation:

## Try It Out

### 1. **Backup & Clean Slate**
```bash
mv ~/.config/nvim ~/.config/nvim.backup
mv ~/.local/share/nvim ~/.local/share/nvim.backup
```

### 2. **Clone & Test**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rexbrahh/blud.nvim.git ~/.config/nvim

# Start Neovim - plugins will auto-install
nvim
```

### Optionally this one-liner:
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rexbrahh/blud.nvim/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Or with docker
```bash
# Test command - just prints version
docker run --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)":/workspace \
  bludvim:latest nvim --version
```
```bash
# interactive mode
docker run -it --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)":/workspace \
  -v "$HOME/.ssh":/home/nvim/.ssh:ro \
  -v "$HOME/.gitconfig":/home/nvim/.gitconfig:ro \
  -e TERM=xterm-256color \
  -e COLORTERM=truecolor \
  bludvim:latest
```


##  features

###  **transparent ui**
- Complete transparent interface with preserved cursor, selection, and search highlights
- Custom transparent statusline with essential information only
- Clean, distraction-free coding environment

###  **performance optimization**
- **Built-in profiling system** - Toggle with F1 key for performance analysis (WIP)
- Lazy loading for all plugins with optimized startup time
- Auto-save functionality with smart debouncing

###  **built-in dev tools**
- **20+ Language Servers** automatically installed via Mason
- **Tailwind CSS** integration with automatic class sorting across 30+ filetypes
- Template language support (Django, Jinja, HTML) with specialized highlighting
- Auto-tag closing for HTML/JSX components

###  **dual fuzzy finding**
- **Telescope** with FZF native for advanced searching (grep, files, LSP functions)
- **FZF-lua** for lightning-fast file operations
- Live preview for grep results with syntax highlighting

###  **auto completion**
- **Blink.cmp** - Next-generation completion engine
- VSCode-style snippets with custom templates
- Smart auto-completion with LSP integration

###  **smart navigation**
- **Harpoon 2** for instant file switching (5 quick slots)
- **Neo-tree** file explorer with Nerd Font icons and git integration
- **Flash.nvim** for precise cursor movement

## Language Support

### fully configured LSPs:
- **Web:** TypeScript/JavaScript (ts_ls, biome, eslint), HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS, JSON
- **Backend:** Python (basedpyright, ruff, pyright), Go (gopls), Rust (rust_analyzer)
- **Systems:** C/C++ (clangd), Zig (zls), Lua (lua_ls), Bash
- **Config:** YAML, Markdown, Docker, Nix

### Smart Formatting:
- **Auto-formatting** on save with language-specific formatters
- **Biome** for JavaScript/TypeScript with rustywind for Tailwind
- **Black** for Python, **stylua** for Lua
- **Smart imports** and code organization

##  Key Bindings

Leader key: `<Space>`

###  **Search & Navigation**
- `<leader>sf` - Find files (Telescope)
- `<leader>sg` - Live grep with preview
- `<leader>sr` - Recent files
- `<leader>fe` - Toggle file explorer (Neo-tree)
- `ma` - Add to Harpoon, `M` - Harpoon menu

###  **LSP & Development**
- `K` - Hover documentation
- `gd` - Go to definition
- `<leader>lr` - Find references
- `<leader>rn` - Smart rename
- `<leader>mp` - Format current buffer
- `<leader>mt` - Sort Tailwind classes

###  **UI & Utilities**
- `F1` - Toggle performance profiler
- `<C-p>` - Toggle Telescope preview (while in Telescope)
- Auto-save on buffer leave and text changes



### 3. **First Launch**
- Lazy.nvim will automatically install all plugins
- LSP servers install automatically via Mason
- Wait for installations to complete (~2-3 minutes)
- Restart Neovim to ensure everything loads properly

### 4. **Try These Features**
```bash
# Open a project and test fuzzy finding
cd your-project
nvim .

# Try these commands inside Neovim:
:Telescope find_files
:Mason                    # View installed LSPs
:Lazy                     # Check plugin status
:Alpha                    # Return to dashboard
```

### 5. **Restore Original Config**
```bash
# Remove test config
rm -rf ~/.config/nvim
rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim

# Restore your backup
mv ~/.config/nvim.backup ~/.config/nvim
mv ~/.local/share/nvim.backup ~/.local/share/nvim
```

##  Requirements

- **Neovim 0.10+** (required for modern plugin compatibility)
- **Nerd Font** - For icons (MesloLGLDZ Nerd Font recommended)
- **Git** - For plugin management
- **Node.js** - For LSP servers
- **Python 3** - For Python LSPs
- **Rust** - For rust-analyzer (optional)
- **Go** - For gopls (optional)

### System Dependencies (Auto-installed via Mason)
- Language servers, formatters, and linters install automatically
- No manual LSP installation required

##  Customization

### **Transparency**
The full transparency is configured in:
- `lua/plugins/transparency.lua` - Main transparency plugin
- `lua/utils/highlights.lua` - Manual transparency overrides

### **LSP Configuration**
Add new language servers in `lua/plugins/lsp-config.lua` and `lua/plugins/mason.lua`

### **Key Bindings**
Modify mappings in `lua/config/keymaps.lua` and individual plugin configs

### **Theme & Colors**
Customize colors in `lua/plugins/colorschemes.lua` and highlight utilities

Commit message:

Update README with Docker image instructions
Removed an image and added instructions for using a Docker image.

README.md, after:

# my own nvim configuration

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-12 at 19 23 23@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8b148bb-09f2-45b6-aa6b-61958d1ca142" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-12 at 19 24 07@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/749535d8-281d-4794-bdc4-09e36cb9d933" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="Ghostty 2025-09-12 19 27 16" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ecb415f2-fcd3-4a3e-8bba-be716081bf6f" />

<img width="6016" height="3384" alt="Ghostty 2025-09-12 19 28 01" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b64fead4-3e11-4f7c-be3f-e5a8dfcb6f30" />

## installation:

## Try It Out

### 1. **Backup & Clean Slate**
```bash
mv ~/.config/nvim ~/.config/nvim.backup
mv ~/.local/share/nvim ~/.local/share/nvim.backup
```

### 2. **Clone & Test**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rexbrahh/blud.nvim.git ~/.config/nvim

# Start Neovim - plugins will auto-install
nvim
```

### Optionally this one-liner:
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rexbrahh/blud.nvim/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Or with docker
```bash
# Test command - just prints version
docker run --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)":/workspace \
  bludvim:latest nvim --version
```
```bash
# interactive mode
docker run -it --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)":/workspace \
  -v "$HOME/.ssh":/home/nvim/.ssh:ro \
  -v "$HOME/.gitconfig":/home/nvim/.gitconfig:ro \
  -e TERM=xterm-256color \
  -e COLORTERM=truecolor \
  bludvim:latest
```
### Or try it with my docker image
```bash
  docker pull ghcr.io/rexbrahh/blud.nvim:sha256-082e52133450504a35828c5c8dd40e62963bd8c03b399381b2032890cd2278f2.sig
```


##  features

###  **transparent ui**
- Complete transparent interface with preserved cursor, selection, and search highlights
- Custom transparent statusline with essential information only
- Clean, distraction-free coding environment

###  **performance optimization**
- **Built-in profiling system** - Toggle with F1 key for performance analysis (WIP)
- Lazy loading for all plugins with optimized startup time
- Auto-save functionality with smart debouncing

###  **built-in dev tools**
- **20+ Language Servers** automatically installed via Mason
- **Tailwind CSS** integration with automatic class sorting across 30+ filetypes
- Template language support (Django, Jinja, HTML) with specialized highlighting
- Auto-tag closing for HTML/JSX components

###  **dual fuzzy finding**
- **Telescope** with FZF native for advanced searching (grep, files, LSP functions)
- **FZF-lua** for lightning-fast file operations
- Live preview for grep results with syntax highlighting

###  **auto completion**
- **Blink.cmp** - Next-generation completion engine
- VSCode-style snippets with custom templates
- Smart auto-completion with LSP integration

###  **smart navigation**
- **Harpoon 2** for instant file switching (5 quick slots)
- **Neo-tree** file explorer with Nerd Font icons and git integration
- **Flash.nvim** for precise cursor movement

## Language Support

### fully configured LSPs:
- **Web:** TypeScript/JavaScript (ts_ls, biome, eslint), HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS, JSON
- **Backend:** Python (basedpyright, ruff, pyright), Go (gopls), Rust (rust_analyzer)
- **Systems:** C/C++ (clangd), Zig (zls), Lua (lua_ls), Bash
- **Config:** YAML, Markdown, Docker, Nix

### Smart Formatting:
- **Auto-formatting** on save with language-specific formatters
- **Biome** for JavaScript/TypeScript with rustywind for Tailwind
- **Black** for Python, **stylua** for Lua
- **Smart imports** and code organization

##  Key Bindings

Leader key: `<Space>`

###  **Search & Navigation**
- `<leader>sf` - Find files (Telescope)
- `<leader>sg` - Live grep with preview
- `<leader>sr` - Recent files
- `<leader>fe` - Toggle file explorer (Neo-tree)
- `ma` - Add to Harpoon, `M` - Harpoon menu

###  **LSP & Development**
- `K` - Hover documentation
- `gd` - Go to definition
- `<leader>lr` - Find references
- `<leader>rn` - Smart rename
- `<leader>mp` - Format current buffer
- `<leader>mt` - Sort Tailwind classes

###  **UI & Utilities**
- `F1` - Toggle performance profiler
- `<C-p>` - Toggle Telescope preview (while in Telescope)
- Auto-save on buffer leave and text changes



### 3. **First Launch**
- Lazy.nvim will automatically install all plugins
- LSP servers install automatically via Mason
- Wait for installations to complete (~2-3 minutes)
- Restart Neovim to ensure everything loads properly

### 4. **Try These Features**
```bash
# Open a project and test fuzzy finding
cd your-project
nvim .

# Try these commands inside Neovim:
:Telescope find_files
:Mason                    # View installed LSPs
:Lazy                     # Check plugin status
:Alpha                    # Return to dashboard
```

### 5. **Restore Original Config**
```bash
# Remove test config
rm -rf ~/.config/nvim
rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim

# Restore your backup
mv ~/.config/nvim.backup ~/.config/nvim
mv ~/.local/share/nvim.backup ~/.local/share/nvim
```

##  Requirements

- **Neovim 0.10+** (required for modern plugin compatibility)
- **Nerd Font** - For icons (MesloLGLDZ Nerd Font recommended)
- **Git** - For plugin management
- **Node.js** - For LSP servers
- **Python 3** - For Python LSPs
- **Rust** - For rust-analyzer (optional)
- **Go** - For gopls (optional)

### System Dependencies (Auto-installed via Mason)
- Language servers, formatters, and linters install automatically
- No manual LSP installation required

##  Customization

### **Transparency**
The full transparency is configured in:
- `lua/plugins/transparency.lua` - Main transparency plugin
- `lua/utils/highlights.lua` - Manual transparency overrides

### **LSP Configuration**
Add new language servers in `lua/plugins/lsp-config.lua` and `lua/plugins/mason.lua`

### **Key Bindings**
Modify mappings in `lua/config/keymaps.lua` and individual plugin configs

### **Theme & Colors**
Customize colors in `lua/plugins/colorschemes.lua` and highlight utilities
